Previously on The Way Home.
We're at my wedding.
When have we met before this?
Well. if you don't know
the answer. Kitty.
then it hasn't happened yet.
65 there they thrive.
65 in 25.
Dad gave it back to me.
Are you...
I will find the perfect moment.
"I jumped for love."
"Go. go. go. said the bird.
"I must follow."
The clock inscription.
it's from the same poem.
What if your mom
isn't really gone.
she just...
Time-traveled?
"Maybe these letters
will stop if I disappear."
Oh God. Jacob.
It's going to be okay. Del.
How do you know that. Sam?
I just... do.
I wish he was here for this.
He's with us in spirit.
I know it.
Come on.
it's almost time
for the "I do's".
Today's gonna be the best day.
What if your dad was wrong.
and your mom isn't really gone
she just...
Jumped and time-travelled?
Kat. wait. Hold on!
Why?
Elliot. if your mom jumped.
then that means
she could be out there!
Just let's take a minute.
all right?
What do we think will
actually happen if we do this?
The pond will take us
where we need to go.
And maybe that's
to Tessa Augustine.
I mean. we have to try. right?
The clock.
Elliot. it's message.
Your mom wants you to find her.
One. two. three.
Elliot...
Are we all here?
Yeah. I think we are.
Where's here?
Oh. my God! Kat. look!
Oh. no.
Is that...
My mom's note.
Which means this baby is...
Me.
Danny. I'm sorry. this is not
a good time.
I need to go find Jacob.
- I just saw him.
That's why I'm here.
Saw him? Where?
The bus stop.
I just drove by.
a bus was arriving.
Jake was there.
He had a bag.
Is this because of Lewis?
What did he do to Jake
to make him leave town like...
Del. I am so sorry.
I will stay on the farm
and help however I can.
however long Jake's gone.
I promise.
Hey. Del. I was just out
for a walk.
I wanted to check in.
Jacob's on a bus leaving town.
I know the route.
I think I can stop him
if I can drive fast enough.
All right. let's go get him.
Mr. Augustine?
Are you home?
Kat. Dad's truck is gone.
So is his fishing gear.
He's out on the water.
My dad was away on a job.
My mom knew that.
And she still left me.
Only one more place we can try.
Pull over!
Pull over!!
Del!
Shh. Katherine.
Shh.
Look.
Oh. no.
Poor Elliot.
You're safe now.
So. let's go home.
They didn't sound surprised
to see me. Kat.
Why weren't they surprised?
What did they know about my mom?
I can't believe
you're doing this.
The feeling is mutual.
Where are you going?
I'll know when I get there.
Okay? Now. I have some money.
and even with an arson charge
on my permanent record...
Nothing is going
to come of that.
We can use the will
against Lewis.
You don't have to
leave your family.
Family's why I'm leaving.
Mom. those letters are
because of me
and the lie that I made you tell
about where I was
those years gone.
Oh. God. Jacob.
No. those letters...
Those letters are the push
I didn't know I needed.
We both need to know that I can
build a life for myself.
here. in this time.
Please.
Mom. please.
you need to let me go.
Fine. I'm not gonna fight
to keep you
if you don't wanna be kept.
I will call you.
soon as I find a place to land.
I love you. Mom.
I love you. too.
It's not enough now. is it?
Why didn't you
tell us about these letters?
I thought I was protecting
the family.
Now Jacob thinks
he's doing the same.
We need to report
these to the police.
Later. maybe.
Right now. tell me what
those wet clothes are about.
Um... well.
they're about uh. Elliot's mom.
We don't think that
she left town in 1983.
We think that
she jumped in the pond.
And the only way that
she could jump is with a Landry.
Wait. you're telling me
that Tessa left Elliot
on our porch and time traveled?
No.
I put Elliot on the porch. Mom.
You? Why?
Because Tessa
left him at the pond.
Please just...
Just think.
Who could've jumped with Tessa?
It didn't have to be
a Landry from '83. Kat.
My mom could have jumped
with a Landry who was
time-traveling themselves.
I'm so sorry. Elliot.
We kept you 'til your father
got home.
You were safe.
I never thought...
It's fine. Don't.
I think I'm...
I'm done talking about my mom.
I'm... done with all of it.
Elliot. no. just
let-let's just take...
She left me in the woods. Kat.
She didn't care
if I lived or died.
So. wherever she wound up...
I don't particularly care.
And whoever the Landry was
who took her there...
I don't wanna know.
♪ In every heart
there lives a place ♪
♪ Where only lonely go ♪
♪ To make a wish ♪
♪ In every heart
there lives a place ♪
♪ Where only lonely ♪
Hey. miss singer-songwriter.
Landry Express is leaving
for downtown Port Haven.
and you need a ride. right?
But I was making progress.
I think?
Stop messing with perfection.
There's only 48 hours left
of you as a high-schooler
who does as Mom says.
So. let's go.
Morning. Del!
Hey. uh. Alice left yet?
Ugh! Ooh!
- Oh!
Oh. I'm fine. I'm good.
Did you break anything?
Uh. just ego.
What is all this?
Oh. not much.
Just a small. personal project.
Small? Right.
I can see that.
Uh... I brought the goods.
Alice will appreciate that.
Can't believe she graduates
in two days.
How'd that happen?
Yeah. time is a cruel mistress.
You know. I am thankful that
you all have taken time off
from learning that
the literal way.
Well. we all needed a break
from the pond.
Gotta focus on
more important things.
Like... town council has just
signed off
on giving me use
of the park gazebo
and JJ confirmed
he can play that night.
So. come end of summer.
Kat will have
the perfect proposal.
It's all falling into place.
And so are you. it seems.
Yeah.
Uh. are you planting
something or...
Elliot?
Did you bring what I need?
- Yes.
Here you go. for the cause.
My contribution's in the car.
Thank you.
You guys are the best.
Oh.
Hey. so you're coming
to dinner tonight. right?
Because Brady's here
and I need my wingman.
I will bring both wings.
Don't worry.
- Okay.
Bring wine. too.
Oh yeah. that's a given.
Oh. I love this one.
Turn it up.
♪ Where will you go
my darling daughter ♪
♪ I'm gonna live
down by the water ♪
♪ If I ever
could find the time ♪
♪ Never no reason or rhyme ♪
♪ I'm gonna live down
by the water ♪
Gosh. it seems like
yesterday when we arrived here.
I mean. how can this be
my last summer with my kid
before she leaves me
for college?
Wait.
I need to say hi to my baby.
Wait. what? No!
How could it be sold?
It was sitting there for months!
I'm sorry. Ali.
Such is life. right?
Rife with disappointment.
Oh. not this again.
I just don't get it.
I mean. what is
Elliot waiting for?
I mean. he has the ring.
I know it. he knows
that I know it.
It's just sitting there
in that stupid fish lamp!
Just pop the question already!
You know. ahh!
Why are boyfriends
so complicated?
Mom. things will happen
when they're meant to.
Okay. maybe it's not
the boyfriends
who are complicated.
Maybe it's us who
make them complicated.
Nah. you just lucked
out with yours.
Hmm.
Hi.
Yes. yes. hi's all around.
Uh. can you help?
This fundraiser is draining
my will to live.
Why are we hosting again?
To celebrate how much
I've pulled you out
of your antisocial shell
this year.
and also it's tradition.
Yeah. that makes sense.
The leaving class raises coin
to get something fun
for the school that
we're never going to enjoy.
It's to thank a school
who's turned out
some pretty amazing grads.
Like these guys.
A category that...
includes me. apparently.
Feel like a total geriatric.
Hey. my sophomore self
had a huge crush on that senior.
Yeah. I'm really sorry
I'm missing the grad.
This family reunion's
killing me.
Alice. how's your song coming?
You're still singing an
original tomorrow night. right?
Uh. yeah.
Yeah. that's the plan.
Anyway. let's get back to this.
Oh. And the award
for the cutest small-town couple
goes to...
75's our year.
We have so much
to look forward to.
Not just grad. but our wedding.
You finally moving out
of Lingermore.
And into a house
with Mom and Grandma.
Okay.
So. it isn't perfect.
But from now on. it's you. me.
and forever. Delly.
We can celebrate
our special moments
however we want.
Make our own traditions
'cause this life is ours now.
No one else's.
Come on.
Where did you put it?
Just look at
our talented high school grad
going to her dream college. huh?
Hudson Performing Arts
School of New York!
I love saying it!
Dad. it wasn't
just talent that got me in.
Max helped me with my grades
and Noah helped me
with my audition tape.
Yeah. sure.
However it happened.
I couldn't be more excited.
more proud and...
more willing to foot the bill.
That old chestnut.
Yeah. But listen.
at least Alice
is not an international student.
Those kids. they get gouged!
But listen.
even if you were Canadian.
I would still
cover the fees. okay?
This is your dream
and you can't put a price on it.
- You sure?
'Cause you're mentioning
the price quite a bit.
Look. I'm just happy that
I can make it happen. okay?
The last thing I would want
is to put any pressure
on you. Kat. I know how hard
you work for what you make.
Yeah. a small-town paper gig
can't compete with
a high-powered lucrative career
in. what is.
generational wealth?
Family money can only
get you so far. Elliot.
How far can you get?
Show me.
All right. I've heard enough
about how much the fall
is gonna cost.
and how far people are gonna go.
Summer hasn't even started.
and I. for one.
don't want to wish it away.
- Hear. hear.
We're all looking forward
to celebrating tomorrow night.
Alice.
- Thank you.
- High school graduations
don't come along every day.
Well. I would like
to make a toast.
To my beautiful daughter. Ali.
I can't tell you
how it feels to see you
taking this next step into
the future of your dreams.
It's surreal.
It's. um...
It's incredible.
But it's also...
a step out this door.
So. it's just...
It's a bit heartbreaking. too.
But I am so very proud of you.
And I-I promise.
when we do say goodbye.
I will do it with
a smile on my face.
Cheers. baby.
Cheers.
That is the bittersweet gift
of being a mom.
Loving hard then letting go.
The bond between a mother
and a child.
there is nothing like it.
Mom!
Wait!
Please!
Don't go!
Mom?
You're using the pond?
Uh... fine.
Yes. okay.
Maybe I haven't totally been
respecting Elliot's desire
to ditch the idea
of finding Tessa.
Since when?
Since the ice melted.
It's just a jump.
only every once in a while.
okay?
And look. it doesn't even matter
because it hasn't worked.
But I know that I go back. Ali.
Fern told me as much
at Mom and Dad's wedding.
She met me in another era.
And what if that trip leads me
to finding Tessa?
I really want to
do that for Elliot.
Oh! Oh. thank goodness.
Thank goodness!
Oh.
Ah!
Ah.
Where are we gonna bury it?
Hey. Del.
Oh. Yeah.
Got a package for Alice.
Thanks. Ruby.
What is Jacob doing in Toronto?
I mean. is he working there?
At-at what?
And how long has he been there?
I'm sure there
are answers in here.
It's the Alice book.
Same edition.
They're pristine.
Wait. here.
he wrote an inscription.
"To Alice.
"found these in a used bookstore
and knew it was a sign.
"Now you can bring
a set into your future.
"I know it will be somewhere
you always needed to go."
That's it?
Great.
Nice. Jake.
I'm so sorry. Mom.
I gave your photos
a place of honor.
Yes. thank you.
It's our ages on full display.
You've done a fantastic job.
you two.
It's going to be
a very special evening.
I couldn't agree more.
Lewis. Hi.
El. a drink. please?
Hmm. I see Jacob
didn't make it back
for graduation.
Still too afraid of me?
Any fear that we had
disappeared when that will
brought you to your knees.
Heh. that's cute...
that you think
a moldy piece of paper
could take away my estate.
Well. it's cute that
you think we want it.
Especially when teasing you with
the threat of Susanna's will
is so much more fun
than actually using it?
The only funny thing is
how we've had to fake nice
for the sake of our kids.
I'm just happy that Alice
has been there for Max
this year.
You know. especially
with your very messy divorce.
Guess what? Guess what?
Bids to spend a day with me
just hit triple digits. baby.
I still can't believe you
have such a successful podcast.
Yeah! Well. what can I say.
right?
People love ghost stories.
And the sound of my voice.
Okay. sir.
I have a pitch for you.
Rumor is
your vineyard renovations
include opening up
the Lingermore tunnels?
Yeah. I've decided to lean
into the estate's illicit past.
Please tell me that you know
your tunnels' ghost story then.
This year marks
the 100th anniversary
of the big explosion down there!
Homemade booze making
gone wrong.
Bootlegger died.
Body never found.
It was a big. cautionary tale
to stop fishermen
from going rogue
during Prohibition.
Yes. it's all very charming.
Please. let me do
a "Boo! Brunswick" podcast
in the tunnels when they're
open about the fifth body.
Well. I'm bringing in
a marketing manager soon.
so maybe they can handle you.
- Oh.
- And your ideas. huh?
Until then...
Okay. okay. okay.
I'll have my people
call your people.
Oh. he does not know
who he's dealing with.
Oh. I know.
and I love that for him.
We reached
our fundraising goal tonight.
And the biggest spender was...
my father. Lewis Goodwin.
who went absurdly overboard
on this super sketchy box
of old film reels.
generously donated by
Joyce Hollyer-Oates
from the Roxy Theater archives.
Okay.
I'm now going to pass
the mic over to someone
who actually knows
how to use it.
Before she makes it big
in the Big Apple.
you'll all get to say
you knew her when.
- Ooh! Yes.
- Alice Dhawan.
Hi.
I'm going to sing something
of my own tonight.
Hope you like it.
Uh. actually. sorry.
I'm gonna sing something
that's a little bit more
on brand for tonight.
a song written by
a Port Haven High grad.
who's very close to my heart.
My grandpa.
♪ I know a path to the past ♪
♪ Is it a secret worth knowing ♪
♪ It's a world where
I've made my mistakes ♪
♪ I was pulled down below ♪
♪ Sunken and cold ♪
♪ There's a lesson
to learn from yesterday ♪
♪ And the future
could be our way out ♪
♪ I'll find you somehow ♪
♪ So. I just breathe ♪
♪ Hope the water brings
you back to me ♪
♪ And wish for this
wish to come true ♪
♪ Let the water bring me ♪
♪ Back to you ♪
"I know it will be
somewhere you always
needed to go."
Hope you're right.
Come on. Ali. we have to go!
Oh!
Oh. my goodness. look at you!
You're so grown up.
Yeah. too bad I felt
like a total kid last night.
It was like I was back
on that arts school stage
in Minneapolis.
- Stop. okay?
That was your past.
and you're about
to start your future.
But just promise me that not
everything has to change. okay?
That no matter what.
I'll still have this.
I'll still have us.
Of course you will.
And maybe...
something else?
So. Mom. Elliot.
and I chipped in.
I mean. look. she's-she's
the perfect mix
of your two favorite eras.
Are you serious?
Thank you!
Go.
Go see it. Go see.
Thank you!
To Alice. the class of 2026.
Cheers!
It's Noah.
Kat. what does
she need a car for?
I mean. she's moving to
the least car-friendly city
on earth.
- It'll stay here. Brady.
Just waiting for her to visit.
Like I will be.
I still can't believe
I flaked last night.
Just be kind to yourself. okay?
You did amazing.
The crowd loved you.
By the way.
you look amazing. too.
Thank you.
Poor guy.
I've been there.
What?
N-no. Max is so not an Elliot.
I mean. he's not
head over heels for Alice.
- Head over heels?
Is that what you think?
Oh. I don't think.
I know.
Fine.
I won't deny it.
Time to put a ring on it. bud.
Ah!
Ah. ha.
All right.
think I collected
everything we need.
It's about making
our own traditions.
Right?
So. what do you got over there?
I got snapshots of '75.
like current events.
and today's best hits.
brought to you by the best diner
1975 has to offer.
So. what are you writin'?
I'll tell you when it's done.
But it's for our future. too.
Hey. I have a surprise!
It's a tradition Cole
and I tried to start.
That is what
the holes were about.
It's a time capsule
to commemorate 1975.
the year that Colton and I
graduated and started
our life together.
So much in here.
Takes me back.
But um. most importantly...
this...
it's a letter I wrote
to our future child.
That was the point.
Colton and I were going to
dig up the capsule
and read it to our child
when they graduated.
But here we are.
So. I'd like to read
it to you. Alice.
"To my little one.
"who will you be
when this tin gets opened.
"and what will your dream be?
"Well. here is mine. it's you.
"pure and simple.
"And if this letter's
been opened.
"it means my dream
has come true.
"I hope I was a good mom
"who saw you. heard you.
"who didn't let her own wounds
get in the way of...
"healing yours.
"Oh. I hope your life
will be filled with
"the same magic and joy
as mine has been.
"But how can it not be
when Colton and I
"are a part of you?
"When you were created
with such love...
"Such hope... and light.
"How could your future
be filled with anything else?
"It will be. I promise.
"All my love always. your mom...
"Delilah."
I know I didn't follow through
with this tradition.
but I hope you will. Alice.
Write a letter to your child.
I'll try. Grandma.
How did I not remember
what was in that letter?
Oh. God. I've pushed Kat
away again.
This is how it's gonna be
in the fall.
Me. here. alone.
I know tonight was emotional.
Del. but let yourself be happy.
You've got an incredible life.
I love Sam.
He's a man of routine.
but I like it.
Lovely evening. huh?
But I wouldn't mind getting
back to routine. that's...
Absolutely. though
I don't know how lovely
an evening it was.
Okay. okay.
shake it off. huh?
Kat is an adult.
Alice is about to be.
It is high time
us real grown-ups
had some real fun.
Oh. oh man. Listen to that.
Oh. doesn't that
one take you back. Del?
Remember?
Stop it.
Just stop. Please!
Get out!
Del? You okay?
Uh. yeah. I'm fine.
Mm.
Your family's grad pics
are upstairs.
I fully grabbed them
during clean up.
I'm taking Noah's photo though.
for blackmail purposes.
Sorry.
The only thing you
should be sorry about
is laughing at me when I told
you to bring a bathing suit.
A cove party ends
one of two ways.
either it's a police raid
or a late-night swim.
I don't know.
running into the ocean
fully clothed felt pretty epic.
But uh... lesson learned.
I should've listened.
Yeah. well. that's the problem.
you never do.
You should have
performed your song.
What?
Last night.
Why do you keep all that talent
hidden under a barrel. Alice?
I just got nervous.
I don't think it's a big deal.
It kind of is
a big deal. though.
If you don't believe
in yourself.
you'll never succeed.
You get that. right?
Why don't you just
support me. Max?
You're my best friend.
I- I don't get why
you have to push so hard
all the time.
- Because someone has to!
You think that Noah
just goes easy on me?
Well. it's because he loves me.
You go too easy
on yourself. Alice.
I pushed you all year.
but I won't be here come fall.
So. you'll be going at it alone.
Are you ready for that?
Yeah. I'm actually
ready right now.
So. go get the photos
and I will prove it.
Hmm.
Alice. come on in.
Join me.
These the reels
that you won at the auction?
Screen tests.
My ancestor tried to put
Port Haven on the map back then
by bringing Hollywood
to New Brunswick
to make a movie.
The script was written.
actors were cast.
but history wasn't on his side.
The film was silent. you see.
and talkies had started
to come on the scene.
So. on the first day
of production.
investors pulled the plug.
And now. all that remains
are these.
1925 Port Haven frozen in time.
Like a time capsule.
Excuse me a moment.
Alice?
There you are.
Thanks.
The reel ended.
So... thank you
for the screening.
Good night.
Stop it there!
See?
Mom. you're going
to travel to 1925.
- To meet Fern.
Just like she said.
You two look so scared.
What do you think
you said to her?
I have no idea.
Can you play it back again?
Oh. my God! Look at her!
This is not the Fern
that I knew in '74.
or the one that Mom and Dad
always talked about.
That Fern. she was a homebody.
I mean. she never left the farm.
She raised her son all alone.
But this Fern...
is mesmerizing.
1925...
'25.
65 there they thrive.
65 in 25.
Fern told me about this
in one of her weird
rhymey things.
The 25. I mean.
I think she meant 1925.
But then. what would the 65 be?
The wall that the clock
was hidden in was
put up in the 1920s. right?
Your mom was here in that era.
And-and now we have proof
that I go there too.
So. could the 65 be about her?
Maybe that was Tessa's age?
No! Look. my mom jumped
at 24 in 1983.
and she's been gone 43 years.
so following the pond's rule
that the time spent in the past
is equal to the time
you miss in the present.
that would make her...
67. not 65.
Yeah. but I mean.
Fern could have been off
by two years. right?
You always say that
she's a bit of a kook.
Look. no. I just.
I don't think it's act...
Come on. Elliot. this can't
just be a coincidence.
She left me. Kat!
All right?
Thank you.
I'm all done. here it is.
And if things go according
to plan.
we'll be digging
this up in 18 years.
Cole?
A letter.
From your brother.
What?
Our wedding invite?
I sent it to him.
Did he seriously send it back?
Wait. Cole. look.
"See you at the wedding.
brother.
"Love. Griffin"
Is he really coming home for it?
How about adding
that to the capsule?
This is about our future.
Grandma.
At this rate.
whatever kid we have
won't even know
Griffin Landry's name.
Oh. Cole. deary. like it or not.
your brother is a part of you.
Maybe by the time
we open this thing.
Griffin and I will have
a better relationship.
By the time we open this.
we'll be a family all our own.
All right.
Oh. just saw Brady off.
Let's celebrate with some tea.
Yeah.
The letter...
It should have been for you.
All those words in there.
they were meant for you.
I wish I had
heard them back then.
I know. Katherine.
I'm so sorry.
It's okay.
And thank you.
It's no excuse. but my mother
did the same thing.
After she and my father
lost everything.
she lost me in her grief.
She didn't even come
to my graduation.
But I suppose
I was barely at yours.
Generational trauma.
that's what the kids
call it. right?
Huh.
Maybe we're just bound
to repeat past mistakes?
You know. turn into our parents.
Well. I think you've done
a great job
of breaking the mold.
Me? Uh. history repeats itself.
I've been grieving Jacob
for months and at the end
of the summer.
I'm going to lose you and Alice.
Mom. no.
It will not be like it was.
I mean. nobody's
really gone this time.
You know. Alice is just
a phone call away.
I'll be a walk over from El's.
And as far as Jake. you know.
I send him things.
Text messages about us
and what we're doing.
Because I refuse
to consider him gone.
I hope you're right.
Oh. is that what I think it is?
Yep. Ready to be buried.
I just hope you do
a better job than me and Colton.
and remember when you bury it.
I definitely have a place.
Tessa Cooper.
Tessa.
So. the suitcase was buried?
But packed with all this stuff.
like she was going away.
But why?
I found these in here. too.
They're from Evelyn's deck.
So. did Tessa and Evelyn
know each other?
Yes. they did.
Oh. Tessa. you're so young.
Can I...
Okay. so this says that
she was born in 1961.
But El. didn't you say '59?
She was two years younger.
Which means...
Tessa would have
been 65. not 67.
65 in 25.
El. do you know what this means?
It means that she is there.
And Fern told me so.
Which means they must
know each other.
This is why I go back.
is to find your mom.
You know...
this is the first photo
I've ever seen of me and her.
My dad got rid of all
the photos when she left.
Threw them all away.
The blanket...
The clock was wrapped in it
when I found it in the wall.
My mom...
kept it.
She must have taken it
with her when she jumped.
She wanted to take
a part of you with her. Elliot.
I want to jump.
Good luck.
Go get your mom.
Elliot?
What... what happened to Mom?
The pond just took her.
What?
She's gone.
But... b-but something bad
happens back then.
We saw it!
What are you doing?
Alice! Ali!
"To my little one.
if you're anything like me.
"I bet you're scared right now
"as you face
your next big chapter."
The pond wouldn't let me go.
I wanted to find my mom.
"I wish I could say
I had it all figured out.
"but I don't.
"Not yet.
"The one thing I do know?
"We won't face that path
into the future alone.
"Family is walking with you.
"Always.
"Remember that. little one.
"If ever you feel lost.
"there will always be a road
that will lead you home
to family."
And when exactly
are you from. deary?
Huh?
And when exactly are you
from. deary?